<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!--IMPORTANT: please note that'do not change this!' notice does not apply to translators -->
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kolf;">
  <!ENTITY kappversion "1.9"><!--Application version. Use this variable everywhere it's needed.-->
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">  <!-- do not change this! -->
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE"> <!-- do not change this! -->
]>
 
<book id="kolf" lang="&language;"> <!-- do not change this! -->
<bookinfo>
	<title>The &kolf; Handbook</title> <!-- This is the title of the docbook. Leave as is unless change is necessary.-->
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jason</firstname>
<surname>Katz-Brown</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>jasonkb@mit.edu</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Paul</firstname>
<surname>Broadbent</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>dbd@myrealbox.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
<!-- <contrib>Reviewer</contrib> -->
</othercredit>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>
 
<date>2010-10-01</date><!-- Date of (re)writing, or update.-->
<releaseinfo>&kappversion; (&kde; 4.5)</releaseinfo><!-- Application version number. Use the variable definitions within header to change this value.-->
 
<!--Short description of this document. Do not change unless necessary!-->
<abstract>
	<para>This documentation describes the game of &kappname; version &kappversion;</para>
</abstract>
 
<!--List of relevan keywords-->
<keywordset>
	<keyword>KDE</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>kdegames</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>game</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>Kolf</keyword><!--Application name goes here-->
	<keyword>golf</keyword>
	<keyword>miniature</keyword>
	<keyword>arcade</keyword>
	<keyword>sport</keyword>
	<keyword>ten players</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>
<!--Content begins here: -->
<chapter id="introduction"><title>Introduction</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<note><title>Gametype:</title><para>Arcade, Sport</para></note>
	<note><title>Number of possible players:</title><para>Ten</para></note> 
<!--Short game description starts here. 3-4 sentences (paragraphs)-->
	<para>&kappname; is a miniature golf game with 2d top-down view. Courses are dynamic, and up to 10 people can play at once in competition.</para>
<para>&kappname; comes with a tutorial course. <link linkend="howto">Playing this course</link> is the easiest way to get started.</para>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="howto"><title>How to Play</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--IMPORTANT: If the game has no defined objective, please remove the below line.-->
	<note><title>Objective:</title><para>Put the ball into the hole with the least possible hits.</para></note><!--Describe the objective of the game.-->
<!--How to play description. Don't be to specific on rules as they have a separate section in this document-->
	<para>&kappname;'s game-play is simple. It is the easiest to learn how to play hands-on, and thus a tutorial course is included to guide you through the basics. This chapter will guide you through this tutorial. To start the tutorial, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Tutorial</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<sect1 id="hitting"> 
<title>Hitting the Ball</title>
<para>To aim the ball, either line up the mouse behind the ball so the
putter aims in the direction you want to hit it or press one of the
<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap> (counterclockwise) or <keycap>Right Arrow</keycap> (clockwise) keys, to rotate the putter.</para>
<tip>
<para>To rotate the putter more quickly with the keyboard, hold down &Shift; while pressing or holding the arrow keys. To rotate more slowly, hold down &Ctrl;.</para>
</tip>
<para>To hit the ball, press and hold either the &LMB; or <keycap>Down
Arrow</keycap> key. The longer you hold down the key or button, the
more strength the putt will have. It will take practice to get a good
feel for speed.</para>
<tip>
<para>To stop the putt while you are still holding moving the putter back in your stroke, press &Esc;.</para>
</tip>

<para>Hit the ball into the hole to move on to the next.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="slopes"> 
<title>Slopes</title>
<para>Slopes are slanted areas of the course that the golf ball rolls down in an expected manner. The light of the golf course is from the upper-left, so the brightest slopes will push the ball towards the upper-left corner of the hole. Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Info</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to see an arrow that points in the direction the slope will roll the ball.</para>
<para>On this tutorial hole, hit the ball onto the upward-pointing
slope and let it roll into the cup to move onto the next hole.</para>

<sect2> <title>Directions</title>
<para>On the next hole, experiment with the other kinds of slopes. There are elliptical, vertical, horizontal, and diagonal slopes in &kappname;. Hit the ball into the hole.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2> <title>Steepness</title>
<para>The next tutorial hole has two slopes of differing steepness. If you choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Info</guimenuitem></menuchoice>, the steepness of the slope will appear as a number from 1-8, where 8 is steepest and 1 is shallowest. Hit the ball into the hole and continue to the next hole.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="walls"> <title>Walls</title>
<para>Balls bounce of walls as one would expect them to, with a little bit of dampening. Deflect the ball off the walls and into the cup to advance to the next hole.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="puddles-sand"> <title>Puddles and Sand</title>
<sect2> <title>Puddles</title>
	<para>Puddles are blue. When your ball rolls into a puddle, a penalty stroke is added to your score and you must then choose where you want to take your next shot from: either next to the puddle or from the same place as where you just took the last shot.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2> <title>Sand</title>
<para>Sand is yellow. Balls roll through sand very slowly.</para>
<para>Hit the ball around the puddles and through the sand into the hole to continue to the next tutorial hole.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="windmills"> <title>Windmills</title>
<para>Windmills are compound objects with brown border walls and a moving arm on one side. Half-walls create the opening to the windmill, which the black arm swings across. It takes practice to be able to time the stroke of the ball to pass through the opening. Hit the ball through the windmill into the hole to continue.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="black-holes"> <title>Black Holes</title>
<para>When you hit your ball into a black hole, it is transported to the exit and ejected at the angle of the exit at a speed directly relational to the speed your ball was going. Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Info</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to see which Black Hole goes to which exit and which direction the ball will come out of the exit. The rim around Black Holes are the same color as their corresponding exits. Hit the ball into the black hole, which will then eject the ball into the cup so you can go to the next hole.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="floaters"> <title>Floaters</title>
<para>Floaters are moving platforms that carry a ball that lands on it.  Floaters' speeds vary. This one is a pretty slow floater, but you still must time your shot so you can go over the wall and into the cup.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bridges"> <title>Bridges</title>
<para>Bridges are simple - they just lift the ball above the things below them, like slopes, sand, and puddles. They can have brown walls on their perimeter.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="rules_and_tips"><title>Game Rules, Strategies and Tips</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<!--This section has to do with game rules. Please give a detailed description of those using lists or paragraphs.-->
<para>Here's in-depth description of &kappname;'s basic features.</para>

<sect1 id="starting"> 
<title>Starting a Game</title>

<para>To start a game, choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
This opens a dialog where you can configure your new game.</para>
<!--
<tip>
<para>More third-party &kappname; courses are available at the &kappname; website. See <ulink 
url="http://web.mit.edu/jasonkb/www/kolf/">the &kappname; user-uploaded courses page</ulink>.</para>
</tip>
-->
<sect2> 
<title><guilabel>Players</guilabel> Page</title>
<para>To add a player to your game, click the <guibutton>New
Player</guibutton> button.</para>

<para><!--The text boxes in the grass area are the names of the players in
  this game. -->To change the name of the players, change the text in the
text boxes.<!-- To change the ball color of the players' balls, click the
middle button that has a color rectangle, and a dialog will open where
you can select the new ball color. The rectangle on the button is the
  current player's ball color.--></para>

<para>To remove a player, click the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>
button next to the player's name.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2> <title><guilabel>Course</guilabel> Page</title>
<para>To choose the course that you want to play, click its entry in the list box on the left of this page. &kappname; comes with many built-in courses that you can play.</para>
<para>To add a course that you have downloaded or made, click on the <guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button on the bottom of this page, and choose the course file in the file dialog.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2> <title><guilabel>Options</guilabel> Page</title>
<para>On this page you can choose whether or not this game will be played in <guilabel>Strict mode</guilabel>. In strict mode, there is no undo, moving holes, or editing of the course. This mode is generally for competition. Only in strict mode are high scores kept.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="saved-games"> <title>Saved Games</title>
<para>&kappname; can keep a history of your rounds that are still in progress and save them to disk so you can load them and play them later. Saved games include the current hole, names and colors of all players in game, and the scores of the players.</para>
<sect2> <title>Saving Your Game</title>
<para>To save your game while still playing, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Game</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>. If you have not saved a game on this game before, you will be prompted for the file to save to.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2> <title>Loading Your Game</title>
<para>To load the game that you saved, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Load...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>. You can then choose the saved game to open.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="practicing"> <title>Practicing</title>
<para>There are a few features that make practicing your golf easier. These features are not enabled during strict mode.</para>
<sect2> <title>Undo</title>
<para>To undo a bad shot, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Undo Shot</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2> <title>Switching Holes</title>
<para>The <guimenu>Go</guimenu> menu contains many menu items for switching to different holes that are quite self explanatory. See the <link linkend="go-menu"><guimenu>Go</guimenu> menu reference</link>.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="putting-options"> <title>Putting Options</title>
<para>&kappname; has a few ways to putt. The basic putting method is <link linkend="hitting">described above</link>.</para>
<para>The mouse is enabled by default. This means that whenever the mouse is moved, the putter aligns to the line between the mouse and ball.</para>
<para>If you prefer to only use the keyboard and arrow keys, you can disable mouse putting by unchecking <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Enable Mouse for Moving Putter</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<sect2 id="advanced-putting"> <title>Advanced Putting</title>
<para>Advanced putting can be enabled by checking <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Enable Advanced Putting</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. This putting mode is slightly more challenging than the regular click-and-hold mode, and can be used with either the mouse or keyboard.</para>

<para>To putt in this mode:</para>
<procedure>
<step>
<para>Click or press the <keycap>Down Arrow</keycap> key once to begin the swing. The putting indicator will appear, and the strength gauge will start filling up with a color, which changes as the gauge fills up.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Click or press the <keycap>Down Arrow</keycap> key when the strength gauge has filled up the amount that you want. The farther around the circle the strength gauge has filled up, the stronger the putt will be. It takes practice to be able to get the correct strength on putts.</para>
<para>After this, the color in the putting indicator will start to wind down back to where it started.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Click or press the <keycap>Down Arrow</keycap> key again when the strength-indicator is as close as possible to the center line of the putting indicator.</para>
</step>
</procedure>
<para>The closer the final click (or key press) is, the more true the putt is to the original line.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="interface"><title>Interface Overview</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!-- This section has to do with menubar. Describe every single entry in order. Use <variablelist> and <varlistentry>. Split the chapter into sections using <sect1(2,3)> for better viewing.-->
 <sect1 id="game-menu">
<title>The Game Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Start a new game</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Load...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Load a previously saved game.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Course</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Save the current course using its current file
name.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Course As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Open a file dialog allowing you to <action>save the current
course using a new file name.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Game</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Save the current game</action> with the last saved game filename, or under a filename you specify if you have not saved the game yet.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Game As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Open a file dialog allowing you to <action>save the current
game with a filename of your choice.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>End</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>End Game</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>End the current game, without closing</action> &kappname;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show High Scores</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Display the high score table.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>About Course</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Show name, author, and number of holes of the course.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quit</action> &kappname;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="hole-menu">
<title>The Hole Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Switch to editing mode</action> to edit the current hole.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Create a new hole.</action> (Only while editing.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Del</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Remove all objects from the current
hole.</action> (Only while editing.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reset</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Reset the current hole to its starting
position</action>, so that you can start over.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Info</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Show information about objects on the current hole.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Hole</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo Shot</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Undo the last shot you made.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="go-menu">
<title>The Go Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Switch to Hole</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go directly to another hole within the
course.</action>  A list of the hole numbers allows you to choose
which hole you wish to go to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Alt;<keycap>Right</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Hole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go to the next hole.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Alt;<keycap>Left</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Hole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go to the previous hole.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>Home</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>First Hole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go to the first hole in the course.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>End</keycap>
</keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Last Hole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go to the last hole in the course.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Random Hole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Go to a random hole from the current course.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">
<title>The Settings Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the main toolbar.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the statusbar.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Enable Mouse for Moving Putter</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Allow the use of the mouse to move the
putter.</action></para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Enable Advanced Putting</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Enable the advanced putting mode</action>, as
described in <link linkend="advanced-putting">its own
section</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Putter Guideline</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the putter guideline.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Play Sounds</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the sound effects.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Enable All Dialog Boxes</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Re-enable any dialog boxes that you disabled by clicking on
<guilabel>Do not show this message again</guilabel> or similar</action>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<!--
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload Plugins</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Reload plugins.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Plugins</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Display the currently loaded plugins.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
-->
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Customize the keyboard shortcuts.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Open a dialog where you can configure the toolbars</action> for &kappname;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="help"><!--This is a standard Help menubar entry. Only change if needed.-->
<title>The Help Menu</title>
<para>&kappname; has a default &kde; <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu as described
below, with one addition:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Help</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Tutorial</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Start the tutorial course of &kappname;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>The default &kde; <guimenu>Help</guimenu> entries are:</para>

&help.menu.documentation;
</sect1>
</chapter>
  
<chapter id="faq"><title>Frequently asked questions</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This chapter is for frequently asked questions. Please use <qandaset> <qandaentry> only!-->
<qandaset>
<!--Following is a standard list of FAQ questions.-->
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>I want to change the way this game looks. Can I? </para></question>
 <answer><para>No. At this moment &kappname; features only one theme.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>Can I use the keyboard to play the game? </para></question>
 <answer><para>Yes. Use the directional keys to control the putter.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>I cannot figure out what to do here! Are there hints? </para></question>
 <answer><para>No. &kappname; does not have a hint feature.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>I want to design my own golf course. Can I? </para></question>
 <answer><para>Yes, you can. To enter the edit mode use <menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo></shortcut><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem></menuchoice> on the menubar. Click <link linkend="creating">here</link> for more details.</para></answer><!--IMPORTANT!: this link has to send user to 'Interface Overview' section. So please setup the link structure accordingly.-->
</qandaentry>
 
</qandaset>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="configuration"><title>Course Editor</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This section describes configuration GUI. If your game is configured using menubar exclusively, please remove this section.-->
<para>&kappname; comes with a versatile editor for its course file format. Courses can have any number of holes, and there is no limiting the creativity of the course designer.</para>

<sect1 id="creating"> <title>Creating a New Course</title>
<para>To create a new course, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Go to the <guilabel>Course</guilabel> page of the dialog, and choose the <guilabel>Create New</guilabel> course. Make sure that, under the <guilabel>Options</guilabel> page of the dialog, <guilabel>Strict mode</guilabel> is unchecked.</para>

<note>
<para>To play this new course later, click the <guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button to add the course to your list of courses.</para>
</note>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="adding-holes"> <title>Adding Holes</title>
<para>Switch to the edit mode using <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to add a new hole at the end of the course.</para>
<tip>
<para>You can restore a hole to a blank state, similar to when it was first created, by choosing <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</tip>
<para>Two items will appear on new holes: a cup, and a white ball. The white ball marks where players' balls start the hole.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="editing-basics"> <title>Editing Basics</title>
<para>The basic building block of &kappname; courses is the <quote>object</quote>. Holes are made up of a bunch of objects. Objects can be moved to any location, and the different kinds of objects each have different properties you can set.</para>
<para>To start editing a hole, toggle the <menuchoice><guimenu>Hole</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu item, or press the pencil icon on the toolbar. To leave editing mode, uncheck this menu item (or the toolbar icon).</para>

<sect2> <title>Adding Objects</title>
<para>To add a new object to the course, choose its name in the list box labeled <guilabel>Add object:</guilabel>. The object will appear in the center of the course.</para>
<caution>
<para>Bridges and signs will cover up new objects if they were already in the center of the hole.</para>
</caution>
<!--
<tip>
<para>You can add more than one cup to a hole! Doing so can create interesting hole designs.</para>
</tip>
<para>Some &kappname; objects are available as plugins. If you add these objects to your course, course players will need to download the plugin.</para>
<para>Third-party &kappname; plugins are available at the &kappname; website. See <ulink url="http://web.mit.edu/jasonkb/www/kolf/">the &kappname; plugins download page</ulink>.</para>
-->
</sect2>

<sect2> <title>Moving and Resizing Objects</title>
<para>Move your mouse cursor over the object that you want to move, and the mouse cursor will change to a hand cursor. Then click and drag the object to where you want it.</para>
<para>Puddles, sand, floaters, bridges, and signs can be resized by dragging the small circle at their lower-right corner.</para>

<note>
<para>Walls can be moved by clicking and dragging their endpoints, or you can move the whole wall by clicking and dragging on the middle part of the wall as normal.</para>
</note>
</sect2>

<sect2> <title>Objects' Settings</title>
<para>Objects' properties can be changed in the area at the lower-right corner of the &kappname; window. To edit an object, move your mouse cursor over it until the cursor changes to the hand cursor. Then click. Various controls for that object will appear in the lower-right corner of the &kappname; window.</para>
<sect3> <title>General Hole Settings</title>
<para>To edit general hole settings, click an area of the hole that is not covered by an object. When this is possible, the cursor will be the normal pointer cursor.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Course name:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the name that is shown in the new game dialog and in the <guimenuitem>About Course</guimenuitem> dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Course author:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the author name that is shown in the <guimenuitem>About Course</guimenuitem> dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Par:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The par of the hole.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Maximum:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The maximum number of strokes a player can take on the hole.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Show border walls</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Whether or not to show walls around the border of the hole.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>
<sect3> <title>Slopes</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term>Type</term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the type of the slope - <guilabel>Vertical</guilabel>, <guilabel>Horizontal</guilabel>, <guilabel>Diagonal</guilabel>, <guilabel>Opposite Diagonal</guilabel>, <guilabel>Circular</guilabel>. Diagonal and opposite diagonal slopes are triangles, while circular slopes are circles. Vertical and horizontal slopes are rectangles of course.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Reverse direction</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Whether or not to reverse the slant of the slope. For example, consider an elliptical slope (a circular slope). When it is not reversed, it pushes balls outward like a mound. When it is reversed, it sucks balls inward like a hole.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Grade:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the grade (steepness) of the slope by moving the slider so the grade moves towards 0 or 8, where 8 is steepest and 0 is flat. Steeper slopes push the ball more.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Unmovable</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Whether or not this can be moved by other objects, like floaters.</para>
<caution>
<para>If a floater overlaps with this object at any point on this path, and the slope is large and thus won't move the floater, you <emphasis>must</emphasis> make the slope <guilabel>Unmovable</guilabel>, or &kappname; will suffer poor performance!</para>
</caution>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>
<sect3> <title>Puddles and Sand</title>
<para>Puddles and Sand have the same configuration options as each other.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Enable show/hide</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Checking this enables the flashing of this puddle or sand.</para>
<!--
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term>Show/Hide speed</term>
<listitem>
  -->
<para>The more towards <guilabel>Fast</guilabel> the slider is, the faster the puddle or sand flashes.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>
<sect3> <title>Bridges, Windmills, Floaters, and Signs</title>
<para>Bridges, windmills, floaters, and signs all have similar settings for configuring on which sides there are border walls. To show the wall on a side, check the check box for that side.</para>
<para>There are also some more specific options for windmills, floaters, and signs.</para>

<sect4> <title>Windmills</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Windmill on bottom</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Whether or not the black windmill arm is on bottom or top - the default is that it is on the bottom. The two half-walls will always be with the arm. Note that you cannot enable a border wall on the side that the arm is.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry> <term>Speed</term>
<listitem>
<para>The more towards <guilabel>Fast</guilabel> the slider is, the faster the black windmill arm moves.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

<sect4> <title>Floaters</title>
<para>The path the floater moves along is shown by the wall it's connected to.</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Moving speed</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The more towards <guilabel>Fast</guilabel> the slider is, the faster the floater moves. If the slider is all the way at the <guilabel>Slow</guilabel> end, the floater will stop.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

<sect4> <title>Signs</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry> <term><guilabel>Sign HTML:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>You can enter any valid &HTML; here. For example, entering <userinput>Hit it &lt;i&gt;softly&lt;/i&gt; towards the slope!</userinput> will create the text <quote>Hit it <emphasis>softly</emphasis> towards the slope!</quote>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

</sect3>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="credits"><title>Credits and License</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This chapter is for credits and licenses.-->
 
<para>&kappname;</para>

<para>&kappname; copyright 2001, 2002 &Jason.Katz-Brown;</para>

<itemizedlist>
<title>Developers</title>
<listitem>
<para>&Jason.Katz-Brown; <email>jasonkb@mit.edu</email></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Niklas Knutsson</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Ryan Cumming</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Daniel Matza-Brown</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Paul Broadbent</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2002, &Jason.Katz-Brown;</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

<!-- !!!do not change ANYTHING after this line!!!! -->
 
</chapter>
  
<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
 
&install.intro.documentation;
 
 
<sect1 id="Compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>
 
&install.compile.documentation;
 
</sect1>
</appendix>
 
&documentation.index; 
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:nil
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
